# Variance Control in Black Box Variational Inference Using the James-Stein Estimator

The following repository contains code and replication materials for the paper *Variance Control in Black Box Variational Inference Using the James-Stein Estimator* published in the journal *Artificial Life and Robotics* (AROB).

## Table of Contents

1. [Files Overview](#files-overview)
2. [Contributing](#contributing)

## Files Overview

The files are structured as follows:

1. `bbvi_simplemix.R` contains the base code and functions for performing BBVI (JS, Rao-Blackwellized, and Naive) on the simple gaussian mixture models.
2. `bbvi_multimix.R` contains the base code and functions for performing BBVI (JS, Rao-Blackwellized, and Naive) on the multivariate gaussian mixture models.
2. `logitregress.R` contains the base code and functions for performing BBVI (JS, Rao-Blackwellized, and Naive) on the Bayesian logistic regression model.
3. `variance_comparisons.ipynb` contains the numerical experiments demonstrating the variance reduction property of using the James-Stein estimator in BBVI for the mixture models.
3. `variance_comparisons2.ipynb` contains the numerical experiments demonstrating the variance reduction property of using the James-Stein estimator in BBVI for the logistic regression models.
4. `trace_plots.ipynb` contains the numerical experiments demonstrating that the James-Stein estimator converges to an optimal solution similar to (though at times not exactly) the Rao-Blackwellized solution.
5. `benchmarks.ipynb` Application to benchmark datasets for mixture models.
6. `benchmarks_logit.ipynb` Application to benchmark datasets for Bayesian logistic regression models.

## Data

Datasets used are publicly available benchmark datasets obtained from the sources cited in our paper. Nevertheless, the exact files used are also available inside the `Data/` directory.

## Paper

The arXiv version of the paper (using the NeurIPS style) is also available in the `Paper/` directory.

## Outputs

All results generated by the code, serialized for later viewing and analysis, are available in the `Output/` directory.

## Contributing

This repository has been made public for the purposes of reproducibility for our published paper. At the moment contributing to the code is not accepted.
